Introducing Pattern associated with InnerSource project fitness (#291)
gruetter/innerSourceTest: patterns/1-initial/good-first-project.md

## Rationale (optional)

The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).
In their work, _Stol and Fitzgerald_ presented a set of nine key factors that are important for organizations to consider when adopting inner source. However, that model looked at an organization as a whole, and while a number of organizational characteristics are applicable to an individual project, some aspects are not, and some project characteristics are unaccounted for in the model. They presented three main factors: Software Product, Practices and Tools, People and Management, and three sub-factors on each of them.

_Silona Bonewald_, on the other hand, presented a near-exhaustive checklist about different aspects to consider while adopting InnerSource at an organization. However, not all of them are applicable while considering an individual project. Ideas from the two works described earlier are combined in framing the pattern presented here.

## Known Instances (optional)

> ## Status (optional until merging)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Status

* Initial
```

The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).
In their work, _Stol and Fitzgerald_ presented a set of nine key factors that are important for organizations to consider when adopting inner source. However, that model looked at an organization as a whole, and while a number of organizational characteristics are applicable to an individual project, some aspects are not, and some project characteristics are unaccounted for in the model. They presented three main factors: Software Product, Practices and Tools, People and Management, and three sub-factors on each of them.

_Silona Bonewald_, on the other hand, presented a near-exhaustive checklist about different aspects to consider while adopting InnerSource at an organization. However, not all of them are applicable while considering an individual project. Ideas from the two works described earlier are combined in framing the pattern presented here.

## Known Instances (optional)

## Status

* Initial

> ## Author(s) (optional)
> 
> Tapajit Dey, Brian Fitzgerald

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Author(s)

* Tapajit Dey
* Brian Fitzgerald
```

> ## Acknowledgements (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Acknowledgements
```

In their work, _Stol and Fitzgerald_ presented a set of nine key factors that are important for organizations to consider when adopting inner source. However, that model looked at an organization as a whole, and while a number of organizational characteristics are applicable to an individual project, some aspects are not, and some project characteristics are unaccounted for in the model. They presented three main factors: Software Product, Practices and Tools, People and Management, and three sub-factors on each of them.

_Silona Bonewald_, on the other hand, presented a near-exhaustive checklist about different aspects to consider while adopting InnerSource at an organization. However, not all of them are applicable while considering an individual project. Ideas from the two works described earlier are combined in framing the pattern presented here.

## Known Instances (optional)

## Status

* Initial

## Author(s)

* Tapajit Dey
* Brian Fitzgerald

## Acknowledgements

Willem Jiang from Huawei for the feedback and Translation.

> ## Alias (optional)
> 
> InnerSource Project fitness; InnerSource-Readiness of a project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Alias

* InnerSource Project fitness
* InnerSource-Readiness of a project

```

## Problem

While any project has the potential to benefit from being developed in InnerSource style, some are more suitable candidates than others. While starting with InnerSource, especially when trying to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern) it is important to be able to select the more appropriate projects to have a best chance of success.

Moreover, while previous works focused on the criteria for readiness for InnerSource adoption at an organizational level, there seems to be no concise and actionable guideline for InnerSource-readiness for individual projects.

## Story (optional)

## Context

> An organization is starting or is in the early phase of InnerSource adoption, with a lot of skepticism about whether or not it'll work, and selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern). Otherwise, a team might be planning to start an InnerSource project but they do not know how prepared they are and if the project they are putting forward is appropriate or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An organization is starting or is in the early phase of InnerSource adoption, with a lot of skepticism about whether or not it'll work.
- Selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern). 
- Otherwise, a team might be planning to start an InnerSource project but they do not know how prepared they are and if the project they are putting forward is appropriate or not.
```

I would break these up in to bullets, just like in the "Forces" section. That way it is easier to check if this is the Context that they also have at their org.

About the last point (starting from "Otherwise, ..."), I am not clear if that is a point in it's own right, or if it belongs to one of the previous points?

Author: I agree with the suggestion.

About the last point, what I'm trying to refer to is that teams who are not in the early phase can also assess their project's fitness and identify areas that need attention.

## Forces

- Lack of knowledge about which projects stand to benefit the most from InnerSource development.
- The team might think they are prepared for InnerSource, but might not have an idea about what challenges lie ahead and how prepared they actually are.

> - Unsure if the processes around the project are conducive to InnerSource style development.

Reviewer: "processes" can mean many things here, can you be more specific?
The more specific a Force is, the easier to check if the proposed solution actually helps to improve upon one of these Forces.

The tool is written in __R__, and can be run from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/tapjdey/InnerSource_Project_Fitness) (recommended - instructions in the repository) or from an [online instance](https://tapjdey.shinyapps.io/InnerSource_Fitness_Checker/). The tool is available in Chinese and English (language can be changed on the fly).

## Resulting Context

In general, application of the framework should help assess the InnerSource-readiness of individual projects.

The _fitness score_ of a project can be used as an indication about its suitability for InnerSource style development, which can help in selecting the most appropriate candidate project(s).

The questionnaire presented in the tool also serves as a de-facto guide as to which aspects need attention for making a project better suited for InnerSource style development.

> ## Rationale (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Rationale
```

> The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).

```

## Title

Good First Project

## Patlet

> This pattern presents a framework (_Project-Process-People_ model) and an _accompanying tool_ as one specific implementation of the framework for identifying the _fitness_ of an InnerSource project. The framework is based on prior work by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf), and should help facilitate the identification of the most appropriate candidate InnerSource projects and the assessment of InnerSource-readiness of candidate projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An InnerSource program has been launched at an organization, and to get off to a successful start it requires some good first projects that lend themselves to InnerSource-style development. Assessing the InnerSource Fitness of the candidate projects can help to select projects that have the potential to help demonstrate the power of InnerSource.
```

I would try to keep the Patlet as brief as possible, and focus it on Problem and Solution. 

I have made a proposal here and moved the text that you had here to the **Solution** section instead.

## Problem

> While any project has the potential to benefit from being developed in InnerSource style, some are more suitable candidates than others. While starting with InnerSource, especially when trying to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern) it is important to be able to select the more appropriate projects to have a best chance of success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When launching an InnerSource program, it is essential to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern). 

While any project has the potential to benefit from being developed in InnerSource style, some are more suitable candidates than others. But how do you find the most appropriate projects that have the best chance to be successful as InnerSource projects?
```

I rewrote this slightly, trying to explain first why we even need to find projects with high InnerSource success chances.
Also made it a bit more conversational :)

## Story (optional)

## Context

- An organization is starting or is in the early phase of InnerSource adoption, with a lot of skepticism about whether or not it'll work.
- Selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern). 
- Otherwise, a team might be planning to start an InnerSource project but they do not know how prepared they are and if the project they are putting forward is appropriate or not.

## Forces

- Lack of knowledge about which projects stand to benefit the most from InnerSource development.
- The team might think they are prepared for InnerSource, but might not have an idea about what challenges lie ahead and how prepared they actually are.
- Unsure if the processes around the project are conducive to InnerSource style development.

## Sketch (optional)

## Solutions

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This pattern presents a framework (_Project-Process-People_ model) and an _accompanying tool_ as one specific implementation of the framework for identifying the _fitness_ of an InnerSource project. The framework is based on prior work by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf), and should help facilitate the identification of the most appropriate candidate InnerSource projects and the assessment of InnerSource-readiness of candidate projects.

```

Author: This is a repetition of the "patlet" right? Should this be put here as well?

> Based on the two previous works mentioned earlier (see [Rationale](#rationale-optional)), we hypothesize that the _fitness_ of a project can be measured by assessing whether the project has the necessary qualities to attract enough developers to build a community around it, that the tools and processes allow for collaborative development, and that the project maintainers are ready to face the challenges of InnerSource style development. We label this as the  _Project-Process-People model_. We suggest two sub-factors within each which overall provides __six__ dimensions to measure the fitness of candidate projects.

Reviewer: If you accept my suggestion above, you can likely simply this sentence a bit as the "prior art" has already been introduced.

> ### List of the major factors and the sub-factors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List of factors to assess InnerSource Fitness
```

Is the major/sub piece essential? If not, maybe we could make the title a bit simpler, similar to this?

Author: Sure

    - _Team Readiness for InnerSource_ -> Are the team members aware of and ready for the challenges of maintaining an InnerSource project?
    - _Management Support_ -> Is the management willing to support the developers working on the project and the initiative in general?

As one specific implementation of the pattern, we present a tool for estimating the _fitness_ of a candidate project along the six dimensions, and also present an an aggregate score which is a weighted sum of the scores for the dimensions (weights are determined by how many people voted a characteristic as important in the [2020 InnerSource Survey](https://tapjdey.github.io/InnerSource_Survey_2020/index.html)).
The tool is written in __R__, and can be run from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/tapjdey/InnerSource_Project_Fitness) (recommended - instructions in the repository) or from an [online instance](https://tapjdey.shinyapps.io/InnerSource_Fitness_Checker/). The tool is available in Chinese and English (language can be changed on the fly).

## Resulting Context

In general, application of the framework should help assess the InnerSource-readiness of individual projects.

> The _fitness score_ of a project can be used as an indication about its suitability for InnerSource style development, which can help in selecting the most appropriate candidate project(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _fitness score_ of a project can be used as an indication about its suitability for InnerSource style development, which can help in selecting the most appropriate candidate projects. By choosing projects with higher chances of InnerSource success, you also increase the chances of the overall InnerSource program to be successful.
```

I would trie to tie this back more immediately to the problem, and describe "What is the situation after the problem has been solved?" If we assume that the Problem exists in a situation where an InnerSource Program is launched, let's talk about that.

I made a suggestion above. However let's also check if the other sentences talk about the "situation after the problem has been solved" as well.

## Title

Good First Project

## Patlet

An InnerSource program has been launched at an organization, and to get off to a successful start it requires some good first projects that lend themselves to InnerSource-style development. Assessing the InnerSource Fitness of the candidate projects can help to select projects that have the potential to help demonstrate the power of InnerSource.

## Problem

When launching an InnerSource program, it is essential to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).

While any project has the potential to benefit from being developed in InnerSource style, some are more suitable candidates than others. But how do you find the most appropriate projects that have the best chance to be successful as InnerSource projects?

Moreover, while previous works focused on the criteria for readiness for InnerSource adoption at an organizational level, there seems to be no concise and actionable guideline for InnerSource-readiness for individual projects.

> 
> ## Story (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Removing the story for now. We can always add one later.

## Context

- An organization is starting or is in the early phase of InnerSource adoption, with a lot of skepticism about whether or not it'll work.
- Selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).
- Otherwise, a team might be planning to start an InnerSource project but they do not know how prepared they are and if the project they are putting forward is appropriate or not.

## Forces

- Lack of knowledge about which projects stand to benefit the most from InnerSource development.
- The team might think they are prepared for InnerSource, but might not have an idea about what challenges lie ahead and how prepared they actually are.

> - Unsure if the tools used by the project and the organizational processes are conducive to InnerSource style development.

Author: @spier Please see if this makes it clear

Reviewer: It does. thanks!

## Sketch (optional)

> 

Reviewer: Do you want to add a sample of the output of your tool here?

Any type of image is always nice in a pattern, makes it a bit easier on the eye.
Even better if the image helps to understand the pattern of course ;-)

Author: Do you think this will be ok? https://imgur.com/a/wO4EyJj

Reviewer: Yeah absolutely. Looks great!
How large is that file? If it is too large we could embed it into the pattern directly from imgur.com if that is possible?

Author: I have added the link to the demo video in a separate section. I felt that the solution needs to presented first for the demo to make sense. Let me know if that's ok

Reviewer: That works. I moved it around and shortened it a bit.
Closing this thread.

## Solutions

This pattern presents a framework (_Project-Process-People_ model) and an _accompanying tool_ as one specific implementation of the framework for identifying the _fitness_ of an InnerSource project. The framework is based on prior work by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf), and should help facilitate the identification of the most appropriate candidate InnerSource projects and the assessment of InnerSource-readiness of candidate projects.

> Based on previous work, we hypothesize that the _fitness_ of a project can be measured by examining the characteristics of the project, the tools used and the organizational practices, and the readiness of the team in-charge, which we call the  _Project-Process-People model_. We suggest two sub-factors within each which overall provides __six__ dimensions to measure the fitness of candidate projects.

Author: @spier I have revised the text

Reviewer: Good revision. Let's keep this as is for now, and I will re-read it with fresh eyes in a couple of days.

### List of factors to assess InnerSource Fitness

1. __Project Compatibility__
    - _Seed Product_ -> Do the project characteristics make it suitable for InnerSource style development?
    - _Multiple Potential Stakeholders_ -> Is the project likely to attract developers from different teams and build a community around the project?
2. __Process Compatibility__
    - _Appropriate Tools and Practices_ -> Do project practices facilitate contributions from outsiders and are the tools used in the project too specific and need to learned?
    - _Ease of contribution_ -> Are the required ancillary resources set up and is the code modular enough to facilitate contribution?
3. __People Compatibility__
    - _Team Readiness for InnerSource_ -> Are the team members aware of and ready for the challenges of maintaining an InnerSource project?
    - _Management Support_ -> Is the management willing to support the developers working on the project and the initiative in general?

> As one specific implementation of the pattern, we present a tool for estimating the _fitness_ of a candidate project along the six dimensions, and also present an an aggregate score which is a weighted sum of the scores for the dimensions (weights are determined by how many people voted a characteristic as important in the [2020 InnerSource Survey](https://tapjdey.github.io/InnerSource_Survey_2020/index.html)).
> The tool is written in __R__, and can be run from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/tapjdey/InnerSource_Project_Fitness) (recommended - instructions in the repository) or from an [online instance](https://tapjdey.shinyapps.io/InnerSource_Fitness_Checker/). The tool is available in Chinese and English (language can be changed on the fly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reference Implementation

The [InnerSource Project Fitness Tracker](https://github.com/tapjdey/InnerSource_Project_Fitness) is one specific implementation of this pattern. It helps estimating the _fitness_ of a candidate project along the six dimensions explained above, and presents an aggregate score which is the weighted sum of the scores for these dimensions. (As an side: Weights are determined by how many people considered a characteristic important in the [InnerSource Survey 2020](https://tapjdey.github.io/InnerSource_Survey_2020/index.html)).
```

I would move the specifics of the tool to the GitHub repo instead. (thinks like the language, the translation, etc)

Also I recall that you had mentioned some limitations of the [online version](https://tapjdey.shinyapps.io/InnerSource_Fitness_Checker/)? The way it is hosted limits it to so-and-so many executions per month, right? Do you still want to add a link to the online version here?

In the context of the pattern I would focus on how the tool helps to solve the problem.

## Rationale

The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).

In their work, _Stol and Fitzgerald_ presented a set of nine key factors that are important for organizations to consider when adopting inner source. However, that model looked at an organization as a whole, and while a number of organizational characteristics are applicable to an individual project, some aspects are not, and some project characteristics are unaccounted for in the model. They presented three main factors: Software Product, Practices and Tools, People and Management, and three sub-factors on each of them.

_Silona Bonewald_, on the other hand, presented a near-exhaustive checklist about different aspects to consider while adopting InnerSource at an organization. However, not all of them are applicable while considering an individual project. Ideas from the two works described earlier are combined in framing the pattern presented here.

> ## Known Instances (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known Instances

TBD
```

Even though this section is optional, I would keep it in.
Finding known instances of a pattern is the next step to improving the pattern further and eventually leveling it up to the next maturity level (Structured).

Showing an empty section here might serve as motivation for others to contribute their "known instance".

Author: Sounds great!

## Status

* Initial

## Author(s)

* Tapajit Dey
* Brian Fitzgerald

## Acknowledgements

> Willem Jiang from Huawei for the feedback and Translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Willem Jiang from Huawei for the feedback on the tool and translation to Chinese.
```

## Title

Good First Project

## Patlet

An InnerSource program has been launched at an organization, and to get off to a successful start it requires some good first projects that lend themselves to InnerSource-style development. Assessing the InnerSource-readiness (fitness) of the candidate projects can help in selecting projects that have the potential to help demonstrate the power of InnerSource.

## Problem

> When launching an InnerSource program, it is essential to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When launching an InnerSource program, it is essential to convince the skeptics about the utility of InnerSource (see the [Start as Experiment](../2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).
```
Changing this to a relative link (easier to keep functional over time).

While any project has the potential to benefit from being developed in InnerSource style, some are more suitable candidates than others. But how do you find the  projects that have the best chance to succeed as InnerSource projects?

Moreover, while previous works focused on the criteria for readiness for InnerSource adoption at an organizational level, there seems to be no concise and actionable guideline for assessing the InnerSource-readiness for individual projects.

## Context

- An organization is starting or is in the early phase of InnerSource adoption, with a lot of skepticism about whether or not it'll work.

> - Selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/patterns/2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Selecting an inappropriate pilot project might lead to failure of the entire initiative (see the [Start as Experiment](../2-structured/start-as-experiment.md) pattern).
```

- Otherwise, a team might be planning to start an InnerSource project but they do not know how prepared they are and if the project they are putting forward is appropriate or not.

## Forces

- Lack of knowledge about which projects stand to benefit the most from InnerSource development.
- The team might think they are prepared for InnerSource, but might not have an idea about what challenges lie ahead and how prepared they actually are.
- Unsure if the tools used by the project and the organizational processes are conducive to InnerSource style development.

## Solutions

> This pattern presents a framework (_Project-Process-People_ model) and an _accompanying tool_ as one specific implementation of the framework for identifying the _fitness_ of an InnerSource project. The framework is based on prior work by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf), and should help facilitate the identification of the most appropriate candidate InnerSource projects and the assessment of InnerSource-readiness of candidate projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pattern presents a framework (_Project-Process-People_ model) and an _accompanying tool_ as one specific implementation of the framework for identifying the _fitness_ of an InnerSource project. The framework is based on prior work by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf), and helps to find promising candidate InnerSource projects by assessing their InnerSource-readiness.
```

I think is a simpler way to say this.

> Based on previous work, we hypothesize that the _fitness_ of a project can be measured by examining the characteristics of the project, the tools used and the organizational practices, and the readiness of the team in-charge, which we call the  _Project-Process-People model_. We suggest two sub-factors within each which overall provides __six__ dimensions to measure the fitness of candidate projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hypothesize that the _fitness_ of a project can be measured by examining the characteristics of the project, the tools used and the organizational practices, and the readiness of the team in-charge, which we call the  _Project-Process-People model_. We suggest two sub-factors within each which overall provides __six__ dimensions to measure the fitness of candidate projects.
```

We have already mentioned above that this is based on prior work.

### List of factors to assess InnerSource Fitness

1. __Project Compatibility__
    - _Seed Product_ -> Do the project characteristics make it suitable for InnerSource style development?
    - _Multiple Potential Stakeholders_ -> Is the project likely to attract developers from different teams and build a community around the project?
2. __Process Compatibility__
    - _Appropriate Tools and Practices_ -> Do project practices facilitate contributions from outsiders and are the tools used in the project too specific and need to learned?
    - _Ease of contribution_ -> Are the required ancillary resources set up and is the code modular enough to facilitate contribution?
3. __People Compatibility__
    - _Team Readiness for InnerSource_ -> Are the team members aware of and ready for the challenges of maintaining an InnerSource project?
    - _Management Support_ -> Is the management willing to support the developers working on the project and the initiative in general?

> ## Reference Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reference Implementation
```

This should be a sub-section unter Solution.

The [InnerSource Project Fitness Tracker](https://github.com/tapjdey/InnerSource_Project_Fitness) is one specific implementation of this pattern. It helps estimating the _fitness_ of a candidate project along the six dimensions explained above, and presents an aggregate score which is the weighted sum of the scores for these dimensions. (As an side: Weights are determined by how many people considered a characteristic important in the [InnerSource Survey 2020](https://tapjdey.github.io/InnerSource_Survey_2020/index.html)).

## Resulting Context

> In general, application of the framework should help assess the InnerSource-readiness of individual projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the framework helps to assess the InnerSource-readiness of individual projects.
```

Is this a fair simplification of this statement?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Take a look at a [demo video](https://imgur.com/a/wO4EyJj) showing the operation of the tool mentioned above.
```

## Rationale

The two most important works in this context are by [Klaas-Jan Stol and Brian Fitzgerald](https://ulir.ul.ie/bitstream/handle/10344/4443/Stol_2014_inner.pdf?sequence=2) and [Silona Bonewald](https://innersourcecommons.org/assets/files/InnerSourceChecklist.pdf).

In their work, _Stol and Fitzgerald_ presented a set of nine key factors that are important for organizations to consider when adopting inner source. However, that model looked at an organization as a whole, and while a number of organizational characteristics are applicable to an individual project, some aspects are not, and some project characteristics are unaccounted for in the model. They presented three main factors: Software Product, Practices and Tools, People and Management, and three sub-factors on each of them.

_Silona Bonewald_, on the other hand, presented a near-exhaustive checklist about different aspects to consider while adopting InnerSource at an organization. However, not all of them are applicable while considering an individual project. Ideas from the two works described earlier are combined in framing the pattern presented here.

> ## Demo
> 
> A demo video showing the operation of the above-mentioned tool with a specific implementation of the proposed model is available [here](https://imgur.com/a/wO4EyJj).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Removed it here and moved a shortened sentence into the Reference Implementation above.
